Promise :- In JavaScript, a Promise is an object representing the eventual completion (or failure) of an asynchronous operation and its resulting value. It acts as a placeholder for a value that is not necessarily known at the time of creation. 


Core Purpose and Uses :-
Managing Asynchronicity: They handle operations that take time, such as fetching data from an API, loading files, or database queries, without freezing the user interface.
Avoiding "Callback Hell": Promises provide a cleaner, more readable alternative to deeply nested callbacks (the "pyramid of doom"), making code easier to maintain.
Standardized Error Handling: They offer a structured way to catch errors using .catch(), ensuring that failures in any part of an asynchronous chain are handled in one place.
Chaining Operations: You can perform multiple asynchronous tasks in a specific sequence using .then(), where each step waits for the previous one to finish.
Parallel Execution: Tools like Promise.all() allow you to run multiple asynchronous tasks simultaneously and wait for all of them to complete.


The Three States of a Promise
A Promise is always in one of these three states:
Pending: The initial state; the operation has started but is not yet complete.
Fulfilled (Resolved): The operation completed successfully, and a result value is available.
Rejected: The operation failed, and a reason (typically an error) is available. 

Key Methods for Consumption
.then(): Attaches a handler for a successful result.
.catch(): Attaches a handler for when the promise is rejected.
.finally(): Executes code regardless of the outcome, often used for cleanup like hiding a loading spinner. 


it is nothing but the object which tells eventual complition of any asynchronous task
states of promise :- resolved , rejected , pending , settled
settled :- promise execution is done whether resolved or rejected.

methods:-
1. .then([callback]) {
    // when promise is in resolved state then it will execute
}

2. .catch([callback]) {
    // run when promise is in rejected state
}

3. finally([callback]) {
    now matter in what state it is, it will execute everytime
}